.TH UAT 1 2016-11-24 UAT "Usenet Archive Toolkit"
.SH NAME
uat-update-zstd \- update archive in Zstandard format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I uat-update-zstd
[-z level]
[-o]
<source>
<update>
<destination>
.SH DESCRIPTION
In some cases it makes no sense to repack whole archive, as it would take
too much time. For example, if already existing archive has 2 million
messages and we only need to add 10 thousand new messages, there's no need
to touch the already compressed data.

To accomplish its task
.I uat-update-zstd
will use the already existing dictionary to compress new messages.

Efficiency of compression might be slightly lower than
.I uat-repack-zstd
as the new message data was not taken into account when the original
dictionary was computed.

Compression is performed using all available CPU cores.
.SH OPTIONS
Control switches modify the compression performance. More compression equals
more CPU and memory usage. Default values are appropriate for production
archive deployment and are very resource exhausting.
.TP
.BR \-z\fI\ level
Zstandard compression level. Consult https://github.com/facebook/zstd for
more information.
.TP
.BR \-o
Enable overwrite mode. By default
.I uat-update-zstd
will leave the original data as-is, only adding new content. If this flag is
enabled, new messages will replace already existing messages with the same
message id.
.SH NOTES
Source should be a zstd archive with
.I uat-extract-msgid
data available.

Update should be a LZ4 archive with
.I uat-extract-msgid
data available.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR \%uat-repack-zstd (1)
