.TH UAT 1 2016-11-24 UAT "Usenet Archive Toolkit"
.SH NAME
uat-filter-spam \- filter spam
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I uat-filter-spam
<spam database directory>
<archive>
[destination [--quiet] | [--size maxsize] | [--kill msgid...] | [--thread threshold]] | [-m msgid]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility may be used to learn which messages are legitimate and which
are spam. After database has been sufficiently trained, spam messages may be
removed from archive.

Messages for spam training are selected randomly, unless
.I -m
switch is used. This prevents over-training in a limited time period when
archive spans multiple years.

During spam removal basic data about removed messages will be printed. It is
recommended to review this list to check for any false positives, especially
if reusing spam database trained on another news group.

There are various operation modes of
.I uat-filter-spam

.IP o
In the default one, only top-level messages which have no replies are
considered for spam removal. It is a common pattern for spam messages to be
"fired and forgot" and be ignored by everyone, but in case such message would
incite some discussion, it wouldn't be good to remove it, as it provides
context.
.IP o
Sometimes there is a thread of obvious spam messages. The default mode has
no way to determine if this is a meaningful discussion, or just a spammer
replying to spammer. In thread processing mode, all messages in given thread
must be spam and must be below a specified threshold value. Message
classification value varies from 1, which is surely spam to 0, which is
surely a valid message, with the decision boundary at 0.5. To be completely
sure about preservation of potentially valid threads, this boundary can be
specified to e.g. 0.9.
.IP o
Size-based spam determination doesn't care about threading and uses
uncompressed message size as the sole evaluator of being spam. Big messages
usually contain binary content, but be aware that sometimes there's valid
discussion in messages of hundreds kilobytes size.
.IP o
Messages can also be manually killed by providing a list of message ids to
be removed.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR destination
Destination archive for spam removal. Omit it to start training session.
.TP
.BR --quiet
Prevent listing removed messages. Only valid in spam removal mode.
.TP
.BR --size\fI\ maxsize
Filter messages exceeding specified maximum size.
.TP
.BR --kill\fI\ msgid...
Remove messages matching specified message ids.
.TP
.BR --thread\fI\ threshold
Enable thread processing mode. Requires sorted archive.
.TP
.BR -m\fI\ msgid
Perform training only on a message with
.I msgid
Message ID. This should be used to exclude any false positives from removal.
.SH NOTES
Requires LZ4 archive processed using
.I uat-connectivity
and
.I uat-extract-msgmeta

zstd data will also be filtered, if it's present alongside LZ4 data.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR \%uat-connectivity (1),
.BR \%uat-extract-msgmeta (1)
