.TH UAT 1 2016-11-24 UAT "Usenet Archive Toolkit"
.SH NAME
uat-libuat - UAT library
.SH DESCRIPTION
libuat is a library used to interact with UAT archives. It provides two
major functionality groups: archive access and state tracking.
.SS Archive access
Archive access is realized through
.I \%Archive
class, which provides various methods to access archive's internal
databases. Each archive consists of a number of messages (also referred to
as "articles"). These messages can be accessed using either numerical index,
or unique textual message identifier (Message-ID). Using Message-IDs
involves hash-map lookup step to translate them into message indexes.

Each archive may also contain the following metadata:
.IP \[bu] 2
archive name \- typically source usenet group, for example
.I comp.os.linux
.IP \[bu]
short description \- short information about purpose of the group (per RFC
3977, 7.6.6).
.IP \[bu]
long description \- group charter. (Some newsgroups regularly post a
description to the group that describes its intention. These descriptions
are posted by the people involved with the newsgroup creation and/or
administration. If the group has such a description, it almost always
includes the word "charter", so you can quickly find it by searching the
newsgroup for that word. A charter is the "set of rules and guidelines"
which supposedly govern the users of that group.)
.SS State tracking
Information such as last opened archive, a list of previously viewed messages
and whether any message was visited in the past are provided by the
.I \%PersistentStorage
class.
.SS Score file
Messages in UAT archives may be scored, which may be used to determine which
ones are important, and which ones aren't. Score file entries are formatted
as specified below:

.in +4
score field =match
.in

Score is a positive or negative number that will be added to message score,
if match succeeds. Field is on of: "realname", "from", "subject" and
determines which header field will be used to perform match. Match is the
string to be matched, preceded by a one-letter flag determining match type.
.TP
.BR '='
Exact string match.
.TP
.BR '~'
Exact case insensitive string match. Provided string must be lowercase.
.TP
.BR '!'
Regular expression match using ECMAScript syntax.
.TP
.BR '?'
Case insensitive regular expression match.
.SH "CONFIGURATION FILES"
On MS Windows systems (including Cygwin builds) the configuration files are
stored in
.I %APPDATA%/UsenetArchive
directory.

On Unix systems the configuration files are stored either in
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/UsenetArchive
or in
.I $HOME/.config/UsenetArchive
if the
.I XDG_CONFIG_HOME
environment variable is not set.

The following files are used by libuat:
.TP
.BR score
Score file.
.TP
.BR lastopen
Last opened archive file name.
.TP
.BR visited
List of messages that were read.
.TP
.BR article-*
Message viewing history.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.nh
.BR \%uat (1),
.BR \%uat-Browser (1),
.BR \%uat-tbrowser (1),
.BR \%uat-query (1)
